Title: Welcome

In little more than a generation, the Internet has irreversibly transformed and expanded the promise of human freedom.  No development has so profoundly empowered ordinary people to improve their condition since Gutenberg's invention of movable type.

But with good comes evil, it seems.  Viruses and worms compromise the machines of even the savviest of computer users.  Mass surveillance -- by corporations and governments alike -- is seemingly becoming the norm.  And as more of our data is being stored "in the cloud," we cede control of our collective destiny to organizations that may not have our best long-term interests in mind.  These developments deserve critical inspection:  if the web exists to promote freedom, our technology must be held accountable.

After all, I believe people have a fundamental right to be in control of the technology they allow into their lives.  This freedom should not be limited only to computer experts.  Freedom ought to be readily available to everyone.

Throughout the coming posts, I hope to treat the web as a living, breathing organism, examining its health as an open, democratic platform.  Software architectures, legal structures, economics, and social norms all give rise to a complex interplay, enabling the web to function as a whole.  The network's overall health depends on how these seemingly disparate forces interact.

It is important to remember that the ultimate goal here is practical human empowerment.  This should forever be our primary concern, and should provide a simple compass for whether our abstract ideas and values are guiding us in the right direction.

Let us begin.
